“a.
FLOWSERVE
| Nes *

V

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8

SCENARIO

CAUSES

REMEDIES

INTERNAL LEAK

SEAT OR SEATS ARE LEAKING

The valve is not fully closed
position.

Check the ball position.

Remove position indicator and
check that stem key is 90º deg
with reference to the line.

Try to move the ball around
closed position checking that
leak has stopped through
bleeding the body cavity.

Operator stops are incorrectly
adjusted.

Properly adjust the operator
stops.

Verify the correct position
bleeding the body cavity.

Seats are dirty or damaged.

ry to clean the seat/ball
contact surfaces injecting a
valve cleaner product (ref to
cleaning procedure).

nject valve lubricant/sealant
product (ref to seat sealant
injection procedure).

fthe leakage doesn't stop the
valve should be removed from
he line for maintenance. If
necessary contact Valbart after
sales service.

OPERATION

VALVE IS HARD/DIFFICULT TO
OPERATE

The operator is damaged or
malfunctioning.

Check the operator.

Refer to operator maintenance
instruction.

Debris is present between seat
and ball contact areas or
within seat pockets.

Flush seats with valve cleaner. If
problem is solved after cleaning
inject Iubricant in order to
protect flushed cavities ffom
corrosion.

If problem is not solved the
valve should be removed from
the line for maintenance.
Contact Valbart after sales
service.

Page 30 of 35

